exercises/module7/README.md, before:

# Module 7: Pre-trained Transformers and ChatGPT

This module explores how Transformer-based models are pre-trained on massive datasets and fine-tuned for specific tasks, revolutionizing natural language processing. You'll learn about the development of models like BERT and GPT, understand how ChatGPT works, and gain hands-on experience with pre-trained models.

## Learning Objectives

- Understand the pre-training and fine-tuning paradigm that enabled modern language models
- Differentiate between encoder models (like BERT) for understanding tasks and decoder models (like GPT) for generation
- Trace the evolution from BERT and GPT to larger models like GPT-3 and ChatGPT
- Learn about Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) and how it aligns models with human preferences
- Gain practical experience with pre-trained transformer models using Hugging Face
- Explore the implications of large language models for AI engineering workflows

## Exercises

This module contains the following exercises:

1. **BERT for Text Classification (`code/ex_01_bert_classification.py`)**:

   - Load a pre-trained BERT model using Hugging Face Transformers
   - Fine-tune BERT for sentiment analysis on a movie review dataset
   - Evaluate the model's performance and interpret results
   - Explore BERT's contextual word representations

2. **Text Generation with GPT-2 (`code/ex_02_gpt2_generation.py`)**:

   - Use a pre-trained GPT-2 model for text generation
   - Experiment with different prompts and generation parameters
   - Implement few-shot learning through prompt engineering
   - Analyze the quality and coherence of generated text

3. **Fine-tuning GPT-2 (`code/ex_03_gpt2_finetuning.py`)**:

   - Fine-tune a GPT-2 model on a specialized text corpus
   - Observe how the model adapts to a specific style or domain
   - Generate text with the fine-tuned model and compare with the base model
   - Understand the practical considerations of fine-tuning large models

4. **Building an AI Assistant (`code/ex_04_ai_assistant.py`)**:
   - Connect to a large language model API (OpenAI or an open-source alternative)
   - Create a conversational interface that maintains dialogue context
   - Implement techniques for more effective prompting
   - Build a simple application that demonstrates practical use of LLMs

## Setup

Make sure you have installed all requirements from the main project:

```bash
pip install -r ../../requirements.txt
pip install transformers datasets torch
```

If you plan to use the OpenAI API for Exercise 4, you'll also need:

```bash
pip install openai
```

## Running the Exercises

Each exercise is contained in a Python file that can be run directly:

```bash
python exercises/module7/code/ex_01_bert_classification.py
```

Note: Some exercises may require significant computational resources. Consider using Google Colab or another cloud service if your local machine has limited GPU capabilities.

## Resources

- **Concept Guide**: Read `guides/pretrained_transformers_guide.md` for an in-depth explanation of pre-trained language models and their applications.
- **BERT Paper**: Devlin et al. (2018) - "BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding" (https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805)
- **GPT-3 Paper**: Brown et al. (2020) - "Language Models are Few-Shot Learners" (https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165)
- **RLHF Paper**: Ouyang et al. (2022) - "Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback" (https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.02155)
- **Hugging Face Documentation**: https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/
- **The Illustrated BERT**: Jay Alammar's visual guide: https://jalammar.github.io/illustrated-bert/

Commit message:

Marked Module 7: Pre-trained Transformers and ChatGPT as complete ✅ in README.md, and added a fabulous overview of its contents. We're really fine-tuning our learning experience! 🎉

exercises/module7/README.md, after:

# Module 7: Pre-trained Transformers and ChatGPT

This module explores how Transformer-based models are pre-trained on massive datasets and fine-tuned for specific tasks, revolutionizing natural language processing. You'll learn about the development of models like BERT and GPT, understand how ChatGPT works, and gain hands-on experience with pre-trained models.

## Learning Objectives

- Understand the pre-training and fine-tuning paradigm that enabled modern language models
- Differentiate between encoder models (like BERT) for understanding tasks and decoder models (like GPT) for generation
- Trace the evolution from BERT and GPT to larger models like GPT-3 and ChatGPT
- Learn about Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) and how it aligns models with human preferences
- Gain practical experience with pre-trained transformer models using Hugging Face
- Explore the implications of large language models for AI engineering workflows

## Exercises

This module contains the following exercises:

1. **BERT for Text Classification ([`code/ex_01_bert_classification.py`](code/ex_01_bert_classification.py))**:

   - Load a pre-trained BERT model using Hugging Face Transformers
   - Fine-tune BERT for sentiment analysis on a movie review dataset
   - Evaluate the model's performance and interpret results
   - Explore BERT's contextual word representations

2. **Text Generation with GPT-2 ([`code/ex_02_gpt2_generation.py`](code/ex_02_gpt2_generation.py))**:

   - Use a pre-trained GPT-2 model for text generation
   - Experiment with different prompts and generation parameters
   - Implement few-shot learning through prompt engineering
   - Analyze the quality and coherence of generated text

3. **Fine-tuning GPT-2 ([`code/ex_03_gpt2_finetuning.py`](code/ex_03_gpt2_finetuning.py))**:

   - Fine-tune a GPT-2 model on a specialized text corpus
   - Observe how the model adapts to a specific style or domain
   - Generate text with the fine-tuned model and compare with the base model
   - Understand the practical considerations of fine-tuning large models

4. **Building an AI Assistant ([`code/ex_04_ai_assistant.py`](code/ex_04_ai_assistant.py))**:
   - Connect to a large language model API (OpenAI or an open-source alternative)
   - Create a conversational interface that maintains dialogue context
   - Implement techniques for more effective prompting
   - Build a simple application that demonstrates practical use of LLMs

## Setup

Make sure you have installed all requirements from the main project:

```bash
pip install -r ../../requirements.txt
```

For this module's specific requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If you plan to use the OpenAI API for Exercise 4, you'll also need to obtain an API key from [OpenAI](https://platform.openai.com/).

## Running the Exercises

Each exercise is contained in a Python file that can be run directly:

```bash
python code/ex_01_bert_classification.py
```

Note: Some exercises may require significant computational resources. Consider using Google Colab or another cloud service if your local machine has limited GPU capabilities.

## Resources

- **Concept Guide**: Read [`guides/pretrained_transformers_guide.md`](guides/pretrained_transformers_guide.md) for an in-depth explanation of pre-trained language models and their applications.
- **BERT Paper**: Devlin et al. (2018) - ["BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language Understanding"](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805)
- **GPT-3 Paper**: Brown et al. (2020) - ["Language Models are Few-Shot Learners"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.14165)
- **RLHF Paper**: Ouyang et al. (2022) - ["Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback"](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.02155)
- **Hugging Face Documentation**: [https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/)
- **The Illustrated BERT**: Jay Alammar's visual guide: [https://jalammar.github.io/illustrated-bert/](https://jalammar.github.io/illustrated-bert/)

## Data Files

- [`data/sample_prompts.json`](data/sample_prompts.json): Collection of prompts for text generation and fine-tuning exercises
- [`data/conversation_examples.json`](data/conversation_examples.json): Example conversations for the AI assistant exercise

## Previous Modules

- [Module 6: The Transformer Architecture](../module6/README.md)
- [Module 5: Sequence-to-Sequence Learning and Attention Mechanisms](../module5/README.md)
- [Module 4: Long Short-Term Memory and Gated Recurrent Units](../module4/README.md)
